Hello again. In this video,
you'll learn more about
communication protocols and
devices used to communicate
with each other
across the internet.
This is called the TCP/IP model.
TCP/IP stands for
Transmission Control Protocol
and Internet Protocol.
TCP/IP is the standard model
used for network communication.
Let's take a closer
look at this model by
defining TCP and IP separately.
First, TCP, or Transmission
Control Protocol,
is an internet communication
protocol that allows
two devices to form a
connection and stream data.
The protocol includes a
set of instructions to
organize data, so it can
be sent across a network.
It also establishes a
connection between two devices
and makes sure that packets
reach their appropriate
destination.
The IP in TCP/IP stands
for Internet Protocol.
IP has a set of standards used
for routing and addressing
data packets as they travel
between devices on a network.
Included in the Internet
Protocol (IP) is the IP address
that functions as an address
for each private network.
You'll learn more about
IP addresses a bit later.
When data packets are sent and
received across a network,
they are assigned a port.
Within the operating system
of a network device,
a port is a software-based
location that organizes
the sending and receiving of data
between devices
on a network.
Ports divide network
traffic into segments
based on the service they will perform
between two devices.
The computers sending and
receiving these data
segments know how to
prioritize and process
these segments
based on their port number.
This is like sending a letter to
a friend who lives in
an apartment building.
The mail delivery person
not only knows how to
find the building,
but they also know exactly
where to go in the building
to find the apartment number
where your friend lives.
Data packets include
instructions that tell
the receiving device what
to do with the information.
These instructions come in
the form of a port number.
Port numbers allow computers
to split the network traffic and
prioritize the operations they
will perform with the data.
Some common port
numbers are:
port 25, which is used for e-mail,
port 443, which is
used for secure internet
communication,
and port 20, for large
file transfers.
As you've learned in this video,
a lot of information
and instructions are
contained in data packets as
they travel across a network.
Coming up, you'll learn more
about the TCP/IP model.